feat(sglang): MM-aware KV routing via pad_value substitution (#9561)
ai-dynamo/dynamo: docs/features/multimodal/multimodal-kv-routing.md

| Backend | Path | Supported | Notes |
|---------|------|-----------|-------|
| **vLLM** | Rust frontend (default) | ✅ | Uses `llm-multimodal` crate for image-token counting + placeholder expansion. Supported models tracked below. |
| **vLLM** | Python chat-processor (`--dyn-chat-processor vllm --router-mode kv`) | ✅ | Uses vLLM's own multimodal processor — supports any VLM that vLLM supports. |
| **TRT-LLM** | — | ✅ | Uses dedicated MM Router Worker. Requires `--publish-events-and-metrics` on TRT-LLM workers. |

> | **SGLang** | Rust frontend (default) | ✅ | Uses `llm-multimodal` crate for image-token counting; substitutes per-image `pad_value` tokens in the routing-side view so SGLang's RadixAttention prefix cache key (`MM_PAD_SHIFT_VALUE + mm_hash % 2^30`) matches byte-for-byte. The frontend selects the SGLang protocol when the worker's `ModelDeploymentCard` reports `backend_framework="sglang"` — no env var needed. Requires the sglang fork with the `mm_hashes` field on `GenerateReqInput` ([sgl-project/sglang#25300](https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang/pull/25300)). |

Reviewer: Too long for a table cell, add as "footnote" below this table and `(*)` here

Author: Fixed in 31f0888a as well.

| **vLLM** | Rust frontend (default) | ✅ | Uses lightseek `llm-multimodal` for image-token counting + placeholder expansion. Supported models tracked below. |
| **vLLM** | Python chat-processor (`--dyn-chat-processor vllm --router-mode kv`) | ✅ | Uses vLLM's own multimodal processor — supports any VLM that vLLM supports. |
| **TRT-LLM** | — | ✅ | Uses dedicated MM Router Worker. Requires `--publish-events-and-metrics` on TRT-LLM workers. |

> | **SGLang** | Rust frontend (auto-detected) | ✅ | Reuses the lightseek registry for image-token counting; substitutes per-image `pad_value` tokens in the routing-side view so SGLang's RadixAttention prefix cache key (`MM_PAD_SHIFT_VALUE + mm_hash % 2^30`) matches byte-for-byte. The frontend selects the SGLang protocol when the worker's `ModelDeploymentCard` reports `backend_framework="sglang"` — no env var needed. Requires the sglang fork with the `mm_hashes` field on `GenerateReqInput` ([sgl-project/sglang#25300](https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang/pull/25300)). |

Reviewer 2: Suggestion may not be applicable directly, but can look at diff below
```suggestion
| **vLLM** | Rust frontend (default) | ✅ | Uses `llm-multimodal` crate for image-token counting + placeholder expansion. Supported models tracked below. |
| **vLLM** | Python chat-processor (`--dyn-chat-processor vllm --router-mode kv`) | ✅ | Uses vLLM's own multimodal processor — supports any VLM that vLLM supports. |
| **TRT-LLM** | — | ✅ | Uses dedicated MM Router Worker. Requires `--publish-events-and-metrics` on TRT-LLM workers. |
| **SGLang** | Rust frontend (default) | ✅ | Uses `llm-multimodal` crate for image-token counting; substitutes per-image `pad_value` tokens in the routing-side view so SGLang's RadixAttention prefix cache key (`MM_PAD_SHIFT_VALUE + mm_hash % 2^30`) matches byte-for-byte. The frontend selects the SGLang protocol when the worker's `ModelDeploymentCard` reports `backend_framework="sglang"` — no env var needed. Requires the sglang fork with the `mm_hashes` field on `GenerateReqInput` ([sgl-project/sglang#25300](https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang/pull/25300)). |
```

Author: The SGLang row now says "Uses `llm-multimodal` crate for image-token counting; substitutes
per-image `pad_value` tokens ..." and the path column is "Rust frontend (default)" matching the vLLM row format. I also extended the same de-branding to the rest of the file:
- "How It Works" diagrams + numbered steps: "lightseek" → `llm-multimodal`.
- Launching section: link aliases renamed `[lightseek-*]` → `[llm-multimodal-*]`.
- DYN_LOG default: `lightseek_mm=debug` → `mm_routing=debug` (the actual
  tracing target our code emits).
- Verification snippet: dropped "(lightseek)" suffix and "lightseek "
  prefixes from the log lines so they match the rename in #9441.

                                          SGLang server seeds     │
                                          MultimodalDataItem.hash │
                                          from mm_hashes;         │
                                          set_pad_value() honors  │
                                          the preset hash → its   │
                                          internal pad_value      │
                                          matches the router's    │
                                          → RadixAttention key    │
                                          alignment.              │
```

Unlike the vLLM path (which forwards `mm_hashes` as `multi_modal_uuids` for vLLM's own KV-event publisher to consume), SGLang's RadixAttention computes its cache key from the **token IDs** of the prompt, including the per-image `pad_value` token that gets inserted in place of image placeholders. The router has to substitute that `pad_value` itself in its token-id view so its overlap calculation matches what the worker will actually cache.

Two preconditions for byte-for-byte alignment between routing-side and server-side hashes:

> 1. **Dynamo Rust frontend** computes `pad_value = MM_PAD_SHIFT_VALUE + (mm_hash % 2^30)` for each image and substitutes that value (× N expansion) in `routing_token_ids`. Engaged automatically when the worker's `ModelDeploymentCard` reports `backend_framework="sglang"`.

Reviewer: Is it possible to have test to ensure SGLang stays the same behavior?

Author: Added `tests/serve/test_sglang_mm_hashes_protocol.py` in 31f0888a. Two pre_merge unit tests (<1 s, no engine/GPU, runs alongside the existing `min_avg_kv_hit_rate=0.9` e2e gate):
- Pins `MM_PAD_SHIFT_VALUE` + the `_compute_pad_value` formula by importing
  sglang directly and asserting on the actual function. Catches upstream changing either constant.
- Pins the `GenerateReqInput.mm_hashes` field's presence. Catches future image bumps that silently drop the vendored patch.

### SGLang

```bash
cd $DYNAMO_HOME
bash examples/backends/sglang/launch/agg_multimodal_router.sh
```

The launcher sets `--kv-events-config` on each worker plus the standard `--router-mode kv --kv-cache-block-size 16` on the frontend so the KV router consumes block-level overlap. The SGLang pad-value protocol is engaged automatically — the worker registers `backend_framework="sglang"` in its `ModelDeploymentCard` and the frontend picks the matching path from there.

Key environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `MODEL` | `Qwen/Qwen3-VL-2B-Instruct` | Model to serve |
| `NUM_WORKERS` | `2` | Number of backend SGLang workers |
| `BLOCK_SIZE` | `16` | SGLang `--page-size`; must match Frontend `--kv-cache-block-size` |
| `SINGLE_GPU` | `false` | Pack all workers onto GPU 0 (for single-GPU functional tests) |
| `KV_EVENTS_PORT_BASE` | `29090` | Worker `i` publishes ZMQ KV events on `BASE + i - 1` |
| `DYN_LOG` | `info,mm_routing=debug,…` | Frontend log filter |
| `SGLANG_EXTRA_ARGS` | (unset) | Pass-through args to `python -m dynamo.sglang` |

Requirements:

> - Dynamo built with `--features lightseek-mm` (Rust frontend's image-token counter + the SGLang glue).

Reviewer: Is this default feature?

Author: Yes, `--features lightseek-mm` is unconditionally on for the dynamo sglang container build: https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/blob/main/container/templates/wheel_builder.Dockerfile#L491-L493

Author: Reworded `Requirements` to https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/pull/9561/changes#diff-64f112f877727ef1c3b6cdb4e04ce640d737c6489f3fae4c8032b0b1a086360eR233.
